Good morning everybody and
welcome to session 708,
Introduction to QuickTime Streaming.
My name is Stephen Tonna.
I work on the QuickTime product
marketing team.
This session is going to give you an
overview of how the streaming server
works and basically how to get your
content up on the streaming server
in order to deploy it across the
Internet and actually other mediums
including wireless cell phones.
And in addition,
Victor is going to go through a little
bit about how to set up a live broadcast.
So with that, we have who works on the
Mac OS X server software
engineering team as a seed engineer.
And he's also set up
actually in his former life,
he did a technical training
class on QuickTime Streaming.
So he knows just about everything
there is to about how to get up and
running with QuickTime Streaming Server.
So without further ado,
I'll let him take over.
Thanks, Stephen.
My code is done.
Excellent.
So introduction to
QuickTime Streaming Server.
This is a introductory session.
So if you've done streaming before
in any moderate to large capacity,
I would encourage you to check
out one of our advanced streaming
sessions later on today and tomorrow,
or check out another
session in this time block.
Because this definitely is just
an intro to get you up and running
with some real world steps.
As Stephen said, I'm Victor Alexander,
software seed engineer.
I pretty much focus on
enterprise software,
so Mac OS X Server,
which QuickTime Streaming
Server is a part of that package.
Definitely love
QuickTime Streaming Server.
I've been doing it for several,
several years.
So let's get an
introduction out of the way.
We're going to talk about the
topic of real-time streaming.
I'm going to give you just a basic
intro of what it is so we have
a basis to have a discussion.
Give you some setup and
configuration information,
shorten your learning curve hopefully
so when you go home to try this,
you'll be ready to go.
My focus will be on
QuickTime Streaming Server,
QuickTime Broadcaster,
and QuickTime Publisher.
So those are the three tools.
There are other streaming
tools that are available,
commercial third-party
applications in a lot of cases.
But I'll focus on those because those
are freely available and you can
check them out and work with them
and it's a good basis to start with.
I'll cover some new features added
in QuickTime Streaming Server that's
included with Tiger Server.
And I'll try and give you some real-world
steps as best I can so that you can
go back to your organization and
get this running quickly and easily.
So the good old what you will learn slide
will do an introduction to QTSS and QTB,
QuickTime Broadcaster.
I'll show you how to do a quick
session request to see if your
server is running properly,
all important.
We'll talk about preparing
media for the streaming server,
working with playlists, QTSS Publisher.
We'll do a quick live streaming
demo if all goes well.
And we'll do some Q&A at the end
if there's any questions you have.
So first off,
what is real-time streaming?
We need a basis of discussion here.
So real-time streaming is basically
moving media from a server to a client
over a network for playback in real time.
And that's fundamentally different
from opening up your web browser,
say, for example,
going to the QuickTime movie trailers
website and watching a movie trailer.
That experience is not
quite as time sensitive.
Some people call that
experience streaming,
but in true underlying terms,
it's really not.
The files are just progressively
downloading to your machine,
and you'll start playing them back when
enough of that content is downloaded.
What we're talking about here
today is actually a streaming
server with protocols to
support that real-time exchange.
It's a very, very time-sensitive process.
The main fundamental protocols are RTP,
which is Real Time Transfer Protocol,
and RTSP, Real Time Streaming Protocol.
These are really brother and sister
protocols that work together to get a
stream from the server to the client.
RTP is really the meat and
potatoes of the stream.
It carries the actual stream content.
It's the video and audio
that you watch on screen.
RTSP is the control.
So it does the stop, the pause,
the close the window
to destruct the stream.
It's really the control language.
So they work in concert with each
other to negotiate with the client and
server to get that content down to you.
But really, RTP does a lot of the heavy
lifting in terms of pushing
actual media across the network.
Another thing to note about real-time
streaming is that no files are
written to the client's computer.
And for people who have a,
are concerned about copyright and
where their files get distributed,
that's a big deal.
They want to make sure they
maintain control of their content.
They want to broadcast a concert.
They want to broadcast a CEO address.
They want to broadcast their earnings.
They want to make sure their
information stays on their servers.
And all the client viewers,
all the people who are watching it,
all they're left with is a good memory.
They're not left with a copy
of the actual presentation.
So that's useful to know.
There's three main methods
of presentation in using the
QuickTime streaming server.
The first one is video on demand.
If you've ever missed a macro
keynote by Steve Jobs and then
gone to our Apple website a
few days later to watch it,
you're watching a video on demand.
You go to the website, you demand it,
it plays it back.
The second kind is a simulated live,
which is more like a radio station.
The third is a live stream.
In fact,
that's the thing that most people,
it tends to attract them to
QuickTime Streaming Server and
its related tools because
the live is so compelling.
It's timely information that
your viewers want to watch.
So here's a really,
really basic architecture, right?
You've got your media, really,
it's sitting on the server,
and you're sending it over a network,
typically a TCP IP network,
and you're sending it to your client.
Right?
Really easy.
Just keep that model in mind whenever
you're working with the streaming server.
It's just these pieces are in play.
In reality, it's really these players,
right?
You've got some quick-time content.
You've got, of course,
everyone has a rack of XSERVs, right?
You just stream your stuff off,
and you've got a client
on the left-hand side.
So some basics about
the streaming server,
which I think will be helpful.
Just like a lot of what Apple does,
the QuickTime Streaming Server is
based on open standards.
There are ratified RFC standards
behind the protocols that
the streaming server uses.
The goal is for us to work well with
other players in the same space.
So RTP and RTSP are open standards.
Anyone can write players or servers or
pieces that will work in that system.
A single server, literally,
a QuickTime Streaming Server literally
can handle thousands of connections.
In the last couple of
versions of Streaming Server,
we've added support for MPEG-4 streaming,
which is excellent.
You have also a feature in
recent versions of QuickTime,
which is instant on.
If you've ever watched a stream,
you've probably gone to watch it,
and you have to wait a few
seconds for the stream to start
playing while the stream buffers.
If you have a broadband connection,
that time duration will be very,
very short, if not nil.
So the stream will start to
play back almost immediately.
There's web-based
administration built in,
as well as a tool provided
with Mac OS X Streaming Server,
which is very useful.
So if you're on a platform
other than the Macintosh,
you can just open up a browser
and manage your streaming server.
And the design of QTSS is
really similar to Apache.
So if you have any
experience with Apache,
the design mechanisms that it
implements are very similar.
So there is an open source version of
the QuickTime Streaming Server called
the Darwin Streaming Server.
Really all that means is
you get all the same kind of
capabilities in the core server,
except the Darwin Streaming
Server is distributed for platforms
other than Mac OS X Server.
So there's a short list there, right?
Mac OS X, you can download a version of
Darwin Streaming Server for Mac OS X,
Linux, Solaris, Windows.
Of course,
the source code is available if
you're very gung-ho and you have
other units operating system,
you want to compile the source code,
it'll work just fine.
An impressive list of
places the server can run.
So Server Admin.
This is a new tool as of
Mac OS X Server version 10.3,
so last year's presentation.
It was brand new.
It continues on, this tool continues on,
in the Tiger Server version.
It's basically a general
configuration tool for a number
of services in Mac OS X Server.
But of course now they have a QTSS module
as of the last version of the server.
There's some QTSS configuration
monitoring tools built into that
tool that makes this valuable for us.
You can do IP binding,
if you happen to know what that means.
You can check out the throughput graphs
and how many connected users you have.
Of course you can do remote
administration with this tool as well.
You can copy the server
admin to another machine,
maybe your admin machine,
and run that and monitor
your server from there.
So demo.
So let me show you.
We can switch to computer one.
So I have Mac OS X Server installed,
version Tiger,
the same version you have picked up,
of course, from our registration desks.
All I'm going to do is I'm going to
give you a quick tour of Server Admin.
So I'm going to launch
Server Admin and take you into the
QuickTime Stream Server related pieces.
So on the upper left,
we have our machine that
we're interacting with.
I'm actually admitting the
machine I'm sitting in front of.
It doesn't have to be that way.
You can run server admin, as I said,
remotely.
I'll turn down the left
hand disclosure button,
and we'll see that QuickTime Streaming
is an available option.
So this is present in Tiger Server and
Mac OS X Server version 10.3.
We have a general status here, of course.
You can check out your logs.
I should note here that the
server is currently stopped,
so we'll turn it on in a moment.
You can check out your logs,
see if there's any errors or issues.
You can also inspect the access log
to see who's been watching movies.
Check your number of connections.
These are current number of
connections of people watching streams.
That list can get very long,
depending on how popular your content is.
You've got some pretty graphs of
how many people are connecting.
and settings.
So in order to start the server--
before I go through the upper
tabs-- in order to start the server,
it's a very complex process.
I'll show you how to do it.
I click on the start button
and I wait two or three seconds
and the server is enabled.
That's pretty much it.
All the defaults are
a good starting point,
especially for testing.
You might want to go and configure things
as time goes by before you do a rollout,
but turning the server on is that easy.
Quickly,
just to take you through a brief tour of
the settings options that are available,
you can control where the
directory on the server,
where your movies you
want to serve are located,
using this dialog, this text field.
You can also control how many connections
you want to do simultaneously,
your maximum throughput.
Obviously,
you should set those to relative
to what your internet connection
will be for your server.
If you're serving the internet,
you'd probably want to set it
appropriate to your external
connection to the internet.
If you're serving to your enterprise
or to your school or organization,
100 megabits, if that's what you have
going outside the server,
is probably suitable.
You can also set some passwords
and access for doing live
streams and MP3 broadcasts.
IP bindings, I won't get into this,
but it's very useful if you have multiple
Ethernet cards and you want to assign the
QTSS service to one or the other or both.
Relays, a little more advanced topic,
but you now have a
UI for figuring relays,
which is very, very helpful.
And of course,
you can control what the logging is.
So that's pretty much a rundown
of what's in Server Admin for
QuickTime Streaming Server.
It's pretty straightforward.
As you can tell, it's just one click to
turn the service on.
So now, how do I know this is running?
How do I know?
It says it's running.
How do I check?
So there's an easy way to do it.
If we switch to computer two,
I've got a client here.
And I will launch my QuickTime player.
So normally the streaming experience is,
for most end users,
once you have a polished system,
is they'll launch a web browser,
they'll go to some event page
where there is either a live stream
happening or there's a prerecorded one,
a video on demand.
And they'll click on a
link and they'll be sent to
QuickTime Player in most cases,
and they'll watch the stream.
But for us, since we're the IT admins
for the streaming server,
we just need a quick test to make
sure the streaming server is working.
So there's a very handy
little menu option,
which is Open URL in New Player.
And that's just a quick
and dirty way to--
That's a quick and dirty
way to make the-- oh,
can we switch to computer two?
There we go.
Thank you.
Let me step back.
In QuickTime Player,
there's a menu option called
Open URL in New Player,
which is a quick and dirty way
to let you just quickly check and
see if a stream is functioning.
Normally,
most users won't access streams this way,
but for us it's perfect.
We just want to do a quick test to make
sure the streaming server is working.
There are sample files
included with the server.
We've got one noted right here.
There are various bit rates.
This one's a perfectly
suitable one to test here.
And we can go and see, and in fact,
success!
Our streaming server is working.
This content is coming from
the server we just turned on.
How do I know that?
The information box reports
in the source that it's coming
from a location called RTSP.
Remember me saying that
acronym a few minutes ago?
Right?
Real-time streaming protocol.
So this file is not playing
back on the local machine.
It's streaming over the network.
Perfect, our streaming server is running.
Can we switch back to slides?
So we turned the server on,
we did a test stream,
everything's working, great.
Time for a coffee break.
The next thing you need to do is you
need to get some content to deliver.
Now this session focuses on
IT administrators who are
working with the server from a
server deployment standpoint.
Of course,
you have a crack team of people
who are developing content for you.
There's a whole other topic
area where people can shoot,
edit, use tools like Final Cut Pro and
compression tools to compress that video
down to a suitable size and format.
That's beyond the scope of this session,
but essentially what I want to point
out is that you'll need to find some
content somewhere that's compelling for
you to post on your streaming server.
The one key thing to remember is that
you need to perform an additional step
just beyond taking that good quality
video you may have shot of some event
and reducing it down through encoding.
You also need to perform
a step called hinting.
It's a really simple step.
It just simply adds a couple of
additional tracks to your movies,
which give the streaming server a tip on
how to deliver the content via a stream.
That's it.
Very, very simple.
So you simply export the
movie using QuickTime Pro.
You can add these hint tracks
via a couple of clicks,
and that's all you need to do.
If you don't want to use QuickTime Pro,
there's other tools out there.
Discrete has Cleaner, which has several,
several options for encoding,
but they also offer
options to add hint tracks.
There's numerous other
tools that do it as well.
You usually want to look
for a streaming tab.
It's a good place to head for when
you're compressing your content.
The important thing to
note about this step,
although simple,
it should be the very last thing you do.
You can't make any other
changes to that media at all.
You need to make the last
change and then hint the file,
and then place it on the
streaming server for consumption.
All right, let me do a quick demo.
We'll just take you through that.
I just need to push some
content onto my machine.
Excellent.
So we,
I had my crack team of videographers
go out and film some content for me.
We're going to bring it over to...
and I will be joined by David and David,
who will be our co-hosts.
David, I'm going to bring it
over in just a moment.
Excuse me.
I'm going to bring it
over from my PowerBook.
Now, this content was just
filmed with a DV camera.
In this case, I used iMovie.
You can use Final Cut Pro.
There's some basic editing applied to
Basic editing applied
to the video content.
It was compressed using Cleaner.
I just picked one of the presets
that's available in that tool.
We'll just bring that content over,
and we'll show you how to hit Media.
Very, very simple.
So for the disks you picked up
from the registration desks,
QuickTime Pro is enabled by default.
Normally under
non-pre-release situations,
non-beta issue,
QuickTime Pro is $29.95 US.
So that will get you the export options,
which among other things will
let you hint your content.
So we have our sample here.
and David I don't know who that guy is,
but-- so we've got MP4 content now.
What I'm going to do is simply
just go File and Export.
And I'm going to do Movie to MPEG-4.
Even though it's already in MPEG-4,
I'm going to go Movie to MPEG-4.
And what I'm going to do is,
since this content's
already been processed,
edited, and compressed for me,
someone else did all that hard work.
I'm simply going to say for
the audio and video tracks,
just pass them through.
Don't do any changes to them.
Don't try to encode them.
Just pass them through.
And typically,
if you're admitting a streaming server,
you typically just want to do that.
You want to let them pass them through.
Or if you can get your people
who are creating your content to
add the hint tracks themselves,
you don't even have to do this step.
The content will be ready.
But I want to do a pass-through
for audio and video.
And I want to enable streaming.
And those two or three options,
just leave them as is.
Unless you have a very,
very high volume server,
in terms of number of people connecting,
you might want to select optimize server.
But these defaults are
absolutely correct.
So turn on enable streaming, click OK.
I'm going to save it to my desktop.
I'm going to call it Hint at
the end because it's hinted.
And I'm going to click Save.
Hinting is not a computational
intensive process.
It's simply just looking at the media
and adding those extra simple tracks,
which are just a recipe on
how to break up the media.
So as you can see,
we've got a hinted movie here.
If I bring up my properties-- how
come I can't bring up my properties?
Yes, I may not be able to show you,
unfortunately,
but I'll try and just put this
in the stream folder file.
Let me just do this.
So we'll try and stream this file,
see if it works.
So we'll go library, QuickTime Streaming.
As you saw in the interface,
the movies are located in the library
QuickTime Streaming movies folder,
so I'm going to drop this movie in there.
And I'm just going to go
to this local machine.
I'm just going to play this
back from the local machine.
So RTSP colon slash slash QTSS.
I'm just using a little quick bit
of rendezvous here to access that,
my local machine.
So there's my stream, right,
playing back.
Golf clap?
Hello, and welcome to the-- Maybe not.
So the file plays back properly.
I added the hinting.
That makes it viable for the
streaming server to play back.
Works as expected.
No problems at all.
So, hinting is a simple, simple process.
Can we switch back to slides?
So let's talk briefly
about viewing locations.
Typically streaming,
when you think about watching streams,
is who thinks about watching
it on a computer screen?
How many people think that that's
the default way to watch it?
Is there any other locations you
can imagine watching streams on?
Television?
Anywhere else?
3G cell phones?
Yeah.
The generic term you might hear
for clients viewing content,
especially with streaming,
you might hear the term terminal,
just like a viewing terminal.
And it's not only computers, right?
Of course, it's handsets,
as someone said, you know, 3G phones.
So we have a brief demo.
Stephen's going to come up,
and if our GSM network is good
enough quality in this room,
we can get a fairly decent stream.
But we're going to use a 2.0 GSM network.
using GPRS to stream a sample.
Previous to this session,
I simply did an extra export
of the content you just viewed,
but I did it as a 3GP file.
If you've been to previous sessions
like State of the Union QuickTime,
you saw that process happen.
It's literally two clicks,
and you can export the file.
We have the content on a public
server that we can stream
over this cellular network.
So Stephen,
do you want to give us a demo?
Do you want to switch to demo two?
So,
Stephen will demo and I'll just briefly
walk you through what's happening.
We have a video camera hooked
up to the second computer here.
It's just showing us the
screen of the cell phone.
We're using a player that can perform
streaming capabilities on the cell phone.
It's requesting the content from a
streaming server that's back at Apple.
It's just literally sitting
on a wired network just like
we have under the desk here.
The cell phone has data
capable services called GPRS.
They layer on top of the voice
services that you're normally
used to by making phone calls.
And the content will play back over
that GPRS data system and we can
watch the content on a cell phone.
So,
you saw the clip playback on a computer,
you see the clip
playback on a cell phone.
Amazing.
This particular clip is using
a technology just simply GPRS.
That's a fairly vanilla, at this point,
vanilla.
Speeds for data services.
We're using AT&T network to do this demo.
They have GPRS services.
They've had them for quite a
while with their GSM phones.
They have a next generation
series of phones called Edge.
Edge is an enhanced version
of the GPRS system you're
seeing being used here.
That essentially will give
you better quality video.
Right, higher data rates,
better quality video will play back.
This day rate is 35 kilobits per second.
Actually, sorry, 30 kilobits per second.
I didn't want to push it too hard
because we're inside a concrete building,
but we had to do some juggling this
morning to make sure it played back.
So it's 30 kilobits.
This is not the new codec.
This is simply using a standard 3GP
file that you could export using
a standard version of QuickTime,
you know, QuickTime Pro that you get
on Mac OS X version 10.3.
I'm using an H.263 codec and something
called AMR Narrowband for the audio.
Pretty vanilla.
It's kind of the default presets.
No real magic.
I just needed to pick a speed
for the content that was slow
enough to support the GPRS system.
So, why does this matter?
I think it was important to
show this in the intro session,
because I want you to think about content
just beyond playback on your computer,
right?
We've got wireless,
we've got wired clients,
but using the data services
provided by cellular carriers,
we can actually play this content back.
Now, you couldn't hear the
audio quite well enough,
but what that was is a simple
demo that I just cooked up a few
days ago with content that would
be something that a sales force
for a company would find timely.
So, if you had a sales force
of 50 or 100 or 200 people,
or remote schools,
or people in the service industry that
are doing remote service and repair,
they can literally get up-to-date
information off their cell phone
without having to be near a hotspot,
without having to go plug in anywhere.
They can get updates.
Some of the information in that video is,
you know,
please note that there's new firmware
for the hardware we just shipped.
Note that there's an
announcement at 2 o'clock.
Please check that information
on the corporate website.
Timely information that they
need to pick up every day.
So, it's a good thing.
I produced this video in
about 20 or 30 minutes,
and it's literally something an
organization could pump out on a daily
or weekly timeframe and distribute
that to a very wide range of people,
geographically widespread.
All you need is a cell
phone with a signal,
essentially.
So, can we switch back to slides?
So we talked about the three
ways to play back content.
You've already seen the video on demand.
When I hinted the file
just a few minutes ago,
we went and played it
back on the computer.
That's a video on demand stream.
That's the most common
way to stream content.
People go to a web page,
they click on it, they ask for it,
they demand the video,
and it plays back for them.
It plays start to finish, and it's done.
That's it.
Playlists,
which is the second type of presentation,
is more like radio stations where you
simply jump into the stream and just
like turning on your radio on your car,
you turn on the stream and wherever
that content is in its set playlist,
it will just start playing.
So that's vastly different than
the video on demand experience.
You have two types of playlists,
I should note.
There's movie,
QuickTime/MPEG-4 playlists, and MP3.
I won't talk about the MP3 because
that's using a format called Icecast.
You may have heard of it,
but I'll leave you to explore
that after the session's done.
What we really want to work with is
the playlists for QuickTime/MPEG-4.
The playlist is configured via
QTSS Publish or Web-based Administrator.
I think what I might do is
I might leave that demo for
John or at the end of the session.
I'm going to skip over this
demo just because of time.
We're starting to get
a little time crunched.
The playlist, basically,
you set the order of media.
You can say I want these 10
items to play in this order,
or you can set it random and
say I want these 10 audio
files just to play randomly.
You can set it to loop
or play start to finish,
and literally that content will
just go off on the stream server and
just play it in the order you deem.
If people jump into the stream,
they'll just jump in,
wherever the content has
played to at that point.
So QTSS Publisher,
this is a tool that ships
with Mac OS X Server.
It was brand new as a
Mac OS X Server version 10.3.
It is included with Tiger Server,
of course, but this version sports
a highly revamped UI.
Much improved, very, very nice, very,
very elegant.
It gives you remote
media file management,
so instead of doing the process
that you just saw me do on the
server where I opened a media file,
I hinted it,
and I copied it to the machine, and, oh,
if I'm not on the server,
if I want to add my machine,
I have to find a way to, like, FTP or,
you know, set up an AFP server on that,
QuickTime Streaming Server,
and copy the file over.
QuickTime,
the publisher tool circumvents that.
You can launch that on the admin machine,
take your files, drop them on the server,
and it's much more seamless
integration with the server.
There's automatic hinting
and web page preparation.
You can stream playlists and
control playlist management,
as I mentioned.
You can edit the annotations,
which is some of the copyright and
details that come along with a movie,
like the title, the copyright,
who authored it, things like that.
And of course,
it includes some Unix tools.
So I'd like to introduce John Anderson,
who is an engineer for
the Mac OS X server team,
who worked on Publisher,
and I'd like to have him do
just a quick demo of Publisher.
So here's John.
Hopefully this is on.
So I'm here to demo
QuickTime Streaming Server Publisher,
as Victor said.
And a little bit more into what's going
to be in the version 2 of Publisher.
One of the major things that we're
adding as well is AppleScript support.
So you're going to be able to
control this via AppleScript if
you already have workflows,
and theoretically from Automator as well.
So that'll be great.
So what I've done is launched Publisher,
and of course,
since I've already logged in,
all of my information is filled
in for me from my keychain.
So I'm just going to go
ahead and click connect.
Now, of course,
I'm connecting to a local machine here,
but I can connect from any machine
that's accessible from the network.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going
to take Victor's piece of content here.
Now, this is not hinted at this point.
So I'm just going to drag
it up to the library.
And that will upload the movie,
put it in the proper streaming folder.
And it will hint the movie as well,
automatically.
Now if you look at here,
I have some settings that are new to
QuickTime Streaming Server Publisher 2.
And this is something
that allows you to choose.
If you're binding the streaming
server to multiple IP addresses
in the server admin tool,
then you can actually choose
which IP address that you
want this to serve from.
Same thing for web servers.
So if you have multiple
virtual host sites,
you can choose which site you
want your web pages to go on to.
So what I'm going to do here is
I'm going to click on this movie,
and I'm going to say I want
to publish this movie to the
QuickTime Streaming Server.
And I'll hit Apply.
So this movie is now
available for streaming.
And it will automatically
grab the poster image,
which the first frame is black,
so that's what it's stuck to.
But I could also choose a
custom image if I wanted to.
Making playlists is also
very easy with a publisher.
All you have to do is click the
little plus sign down here and...
Take your files and drag
them right to the playlist.
So this interface is
very similar to iTunes.
Then you can choose whether you
want this to be looped or not,
whether you want it
to be weighted random.
And weighted random means that
if you have more than one file,
you can give files different weight,
and it will play them more often or
less often according to that weight.
The other thing that we can
do here is if I go back to the
library and click on the file,
you can see I can edit the
annotations right from here.
And the kind of neat thing is that,
as Victor said,
you need to do the hinting last
after you make any changes.
So if you change these
annotations from here,
it will actually re-hint
the movie when it's done.
So it saves you the trouble
of downloading the movie,
making the changes,
and uploading them again.
If you scroll down here,
you can see some settings for how you
want to embed the movie in the page.
And, for example,
you can have the user click on the movie
and have it open in the QuickTime player.
You can have it embedded
in the page itself.
And, depending on those settings,
it will actually give you HTML that
you can copy and paste or drag and
drop into BBEdit or Dreamweaver or
whatever your favorite HTML editor is.
And the other thing that we can
do is we can make web pages.
So--
You can create a page just like I create
a playlist and drag files to it.
We will actually use an XSLT web
template on the server to take that
HTML that we saw in the field earlier
and insert it into a page so that
you can automatically create web
pages of content without having to
ever enter an HTML editor at all.
So that's Publisher.
Excellent.
Publishers, amazing tool.
Definitely is extremely helpful.
Thank you, John.
So on to the third type of method for
presentation on the streaming server.
And like I said at the
start of this session,
it's really what often drives
people to inquire about streaming
server in the first place.
Live streams.
The only way to get an event or a
happening or a press conference or
an earnings announcement delivered
to your intended viewers as it
happens is using live streaming.
You can't do this using the
mechanism I mentioned previously,
which is progressive download,
watching those movie trailers.
That's pre-stored content
that's been already authored
and mastered and placed there.
It's content that happened
and was filmed in the past.
This is absolutely live.
There is a few seconds delay, of course,
to film the footage, transcode it,
and bring it to the server.
But it's effective when
probably live for your users.
It requires the use of
live encoding software.
For us, that means QuickTime Broadcaster.
There's other choices out there.
I would encourage you to check out
apple.com forward slash QuickTime.
Go and check out the tools area.
There is a streaming and live encoding
area where you can check out some
excellent third-party tools that will
let you do things like multiple cameras,
add text, you know, wipes, effects.
Broadcaster is a free, from Apple,
just baseline, good live encoder.
Get you going, one camera,
get you started.
started with low cost.
You can connect any
AV equipment you want.
Of course,
your computer has to support those
connectors using cards or whatnot.
The most common way we tend to see,
even with more professional setups,
is what I've got here on stage,
which is a DV camera with
a FireWire jack on it.
And that's connected to a FireWire
port on the live encoder machine,
and that's how the source gets done.
I've seen large-scale streams
where they have five $10,000
video camera with FireWire on it,
and they've still got the
same type of setup as I have.
They've just got better lenses
and optics and equipment and a
much better camera operator too.
So, the same kind of system exists.
On large scale events,
you want to typically
dedicate an individual machine
to do the live encoding.
So you're going to have a live encoder
box that's shuttling data to a server,
then that's shuttling
data to your clients.
It's a little bit different than the
original diagram for the live stream.
So, MPEG-4 audio and video
streaming require G4 or greater.
Because of the computational
expense of those codecs,
in order to do that type of
encoding on the fly in real time,
you need a bit of horsepower.
So, pick up a Power Mac G5 if you want
to do any kind of MPEG-4 based,
AAC based streams.
The last thing I should
note is Apple uses this
stuff for our live events.
We do it on a larger scale, of course,
because we have 50,000 or 100,000
people show up for some macro keynotes,
but we use this stuff.
If you're not already aware,
we do quarterly
announcements for financials,
and that system uses many of the
tools that I'm showing you today,
certainly QuickTime Streaming Server.
So the setup is quite simple.
We've got a video camera.
In this case, I'm going to say that we're
going to do a large-scale event
because I have a separate machine,
as you can see that PowerBook up top,
which is my live encoder box.
It's a dedicated G4 or greater box.
It's taking the video in,
it's encoding it, it's hinting it,
and it's sending it to, in this case,
the G5 XServe.
So that live encoder is
going to be quite busy,
very, very busy.
And the XServe G5, of course,
is going to be sending the
content out to the client.
So keep that in mind.
Let's do a demo and I'll kind of
talk through some of the different
areas to do with a live setup.
I'll use my nicely set up camera here.
I'm just going to turn my camera on.
My front row guys will be
my unvolunteered talent.
So in the Applications folder,
we have QuickTime Broadcaster.
Again, it's included with the
streaming server-- excuse me,
it's included with Mac OS X Server.
We launch it.
Very simple tool.
One window.
You've got your preview.
Plug in my camera and
we'll have a preview.
There are a couple controls down below.
You have to relaunch it.
Oh, there we go.
So we just have a preview up top,
a broadcast button, recorded disk,
some settings, and that's it.
So if you wanted to just plug and go,
you could easily just use this interface.
Of course, showing details will expand
to give you more options.
You can see there's an audio, video,
and network tab.
In order to perform a broadcast,
there is a little bit of
pre-work we need to do.
Before the session started,
I actually went into Server Admin,
which I showed you at the start,
and I went into an area where
you can configure passwords.
And because I want to control
access to who can broadcast
content to my streaming server,
I don't want any Joe Schmo in my
company to be able to do that,
I set a password that
will control the inputs.
I just don't want any live
encoder to be able to send content
through my streaming server.
So I had a control point.
So I'll mention that in just a moment.
The defaults here,
you have some presets available.
They are based on the connection speed
that your users are going to be on.
So if you're on modems,
I'd select modem presets.
We'll use a LAN setting since
we're in a wired LAN here.
You can select the source
where the audio is coming from.
I think I'm going to pick the
DV audio first two channels,
I believe.
You can set the gain for
the appropriate options.
There's some codec options
here that are available.
These are very much the same
as what you'd when you're
exporting a QuickTime movie.
There is packetizing information,
but generally you don't have
to make any changes to that,
especially if you're just
getting started with streaming.
These defaults are perfectly suitable.
You also note that you can enable
and disable the video and or audio.
So you can have an audio-only stream,
or a video-only stream, or both.
Of course, if you're doing an earnings
announcement for your company,
it's likely going to be audio-only,
so just disable the video tab and all
you're going to broadcast is audio.
So switching to video tab,
I'm going to select LAN low motion.
That's kind of suitable
for this situation.
It's one of the presets.
It notes the source.
So I have a FireWire camera.
It's the Sony DCR PC100.
Just a pretty simple camera.
It pulls that information
from the FireWire frameworks.
We can set the size of the video.
320x240 is a good starting point,
especially because I'm going to
be streaming on my wired LAN here.
If you're streaming to a modem,
you'd want to set that size down
to something like... 176x144,
something in that range.
We can pick the codec.
MPEG-4 is a good choice.
You can set the quality you want.
I like medium.
Set the frames per second.
I'll leave that as default since we
have a fairly generous network here.
And we get to the network tab.
So if you're just
starting with streaming,
you literally could just pick
one of the presets for audio,
one of the presets for video,
skip right to the network tab,
and this is really the only place you
have to do any real work to get your
stream just at least into testing mode.
You can save presets here.
There are none created because,
of course, each network is different.
And all we want to do is
determine how we want to transmit,
how we want to announce the
details of this broadcast.
And I should point this out.
QuickTime Broadcaster
does something very,
very useful.
It uses the announce protocol.
And what that means is when
you fire up a brand new stream,
a small text file is created.
It's just a description of the stream.
It's called an SDP file.
It's one of those standards
that we talked about.
It's an open standard
along with RTP and RTSP.
That file, using the announce protocol,
will automatically be sent
to the streaming server.
So in this case,
I'm using the same machine to do
the encoding and the streaming.
But if it was a separate setup,
like I showed on the
diagram just a moment ago,
QuickTime Broadcaster will automatically
push that SDP file to the server.
Extremely helpful.
I can't tell you.
Because, again,
using the slightly older format,
which is a manual, a manual unicast,
you end up having to try and copy files
to the streaming server using FTP or AFP.
You have to use some sort of file
protocol or sneaker net to run that
SDP file over to the streaming server
and drop it in the right folder.
Announce will automatically
push that required file there.
So I'm going to use the
announce feature here.
I've got the host name.
I'm just using that.
I'm going to call it, you know,
intro to QTSS.
Actually,
I'll answer that question at the Q&A.
How's that sound?
Just so we can get it on the mics.
Now, username and password.
Remember I did some pre-work.
I said I went into the server admin
and I went to the passwords area
and I set the username and password.
I'm going to enter that here so
that not just any Joe Schmo can use
my streaming server as a live feed.
Did I just...
I just crashed out,
so we'll just restart that step.
Let me just go back and get
us back to where we were.
We're going to use music, video-- oh.
We had our camera turn off.
Sorry about that.
Let me just get us back to where we were.
My apologies.
My camera turns off after a few minutes.
I want music.
I want-- let's find High Motion.
I'm going to use custom
Unicast QTSS local.
I'll call this Intro.
My username is admin.
My password is super secret.
I can set a buffer delay.
You can set that to any value.
If you're streaming to
your corporate network,
which is all wired Ethernet,
you can set that value a little lower.
There is a built-in default
of two to three seconds,
even though if you set this to zero,
it will still be two to three seconds.
So typically, you know,
four to five seconds of
a little bit of buffer.
Let your clients kind of queue
up the content on the other end.
If you're broadcasting something
like a concert or a remote event,
and you have your live
encoder at that remote event,
because of course the camera
has to be there as well,
you can use broadcast over TCP IP.
That just means it will do a better
job of guaranteeing that the live
encoder will send the content in
its complete form to the server.
We'll not choose that here.
We have a wired LAN.
QTSS.
S, of course I'm the author.
I'll just save that as
a preset just in case.
Excuse me.
Call it QTSS.
Click OK.
And if all goes well,
I should be able to just
hit the broadcast button.
And you notice that in the preview
window it said starting broadcast,
and now it's broadcasting.
And it gives you some status
underneath that preview area.
It's a little bit small.
I'll just hide these details.
And literally, your live encoder,
all it has to have is
just that small window up.
That's enough to perform
the live encoding duties.
Now, I've got a Power Mac G5
dual 2 gigahertz here,
so it's got lots of horsepower.
So I'm running the streaming
server on the same box.
So now to watch that content,
like I said, normally your viewers would
go to a Web page that you've
created with a link to the stream.
But if we switch over to computer 2,
Hi, everyone.
I'm Stephen Tonna, and I'm the CEO of
QuickTime Streaming Server.
I named the stream Intro to QTSS.
So to pick up a live stream,
it's quite simple.
I'm going to use the same
address of my streaming server.
Now, notice what's missing in that URL?
An extension.
So you don't need to enter an extension
for a request for a live stream.
It's just understood that .sdp,
that little small file that's
created by Broadcaster and
automatically pushed to the server,
it's understood that that is what
you're requesting when you type in
just the file name sans extension.
So if I hit OK,
We now have a live stream
playing back from our client
off our server using this.
Yes, everyone automatically starts
doing stuff in front of the camera.
There's roughly a five to
eight second delay probably,
but you can see that we're
watching a live stream.
Now, just like broadcast radio,
they have a six second delay.
Like I said at the start
of the presentation,
live broadcasts,
there's a bit of a delay, right?
It depends on what's happening.
There might be other traffic.
And I think I set the
buffer at five seconds,
so you get eight seconds of delay.
The optimal situation is to run a
live encoder on a separate machine,
because this box is running a
couple services and streaming
server and live encoding.
So it's doing a bit of hard work.
So keep in mind,
your viewers at the other
end won't see this delay.
They won't know, because they're not at,
you know,
people don't sit in the radio broadcast
booth and listen to the answer,
right?
They're out in their cars,
they're driving, they don't know there's
six seconds of delay.
Effectively, it will be live to them,
right?
So that's a live stream.
And literally, within five, 10 minutes,
you can set one up.
Turn your streaming server on,
open up Broadcaster,
plug in any consumer camera,
certainly with FireWire on it,
and you're ready to go.
OK.
Can we switch back to slides?
So for more information,
there's an excellent PDF guide
that you can pick up.
It's the Darwin Streaming
Server Administrator Guide.
With QuickTime Streaming Server,
you get the QuickTime Streaming
Server Administrator Guide,
excellent PDF,
which documents several features,
how to set up the server in more detail.
You can also go to apple.com
forward slash QuickTimes,
forward slash products,
forward slash QTSS.
There's all the latest information
and links to downloads for Darwin,
updates for the QTSS, of course.
If you're more on the development side,
because of course the source code for
the streaming server is available,
if you do more development,
we will gratefully accept source
code suggestions and changes.
You can submit back to Apple after
you download the source code.
You can check out the two developer
links there at the bottom of the
screen for more information on that.
Reference Library,
I'll leave this up for a moment or two.
The training group used to offer a
QuickTime Streaming Server course.
It was the one that I wrote
that Stephen mentioned at
the start of the session.
It no longer is in current circulation.
If you contact the fine folks
at the technical training
group at training.apple.com or
training.apple.com and request it,
it would be a nice way to
see a revival of that course.
It's a three-day classroom
taught course with examples and
exercises you need to work through,
and there's theory about bandwidth
calculations and saturation
and live event planning.
You can receive a manual
that's 250 to 300 pages of
content you can take with you.
An excellent class.
but like I said,
it's currently not in circulation.
So I'd encourage you to contact
the technical training folks at
train.oppa.com and ask for it.
So I'd love to see it come back,
especially in light of the cell phone
streaming we demonstrated earlier.
Fabulous book by Stephen Gooley called
"Quick Time for the Web," excellent book.
There's a general reference on QuickTime,
including streaming.
We've got a streaming media bible
and the engineering task force,
which is the standards which describe how
RTP and RTSP are supposed to function.
I'll jump back to this in a moment.
There's a couple of knowledge base
articles which are extremely helpful.
If you forget your password
for your streaming server,
how to reset it.
There's a description
of a log access format.
The streaming server logs
over 40 parameters for every
time a stream is requested.
How many bits they watched,
how many bits they lost,
what they watched, when they watched it,
all those details and several
more parameters are captured.
And the binding on how to
bind the QTSS server to a
particular Ethernet interface,
one or the other or both,
is described in the last article.
So who to contact?
Guillermo Ortiz, Stephen Tonna,
who introduced me at the
start of the session.
Of course,
we're going to do a Q&A in a few moments.
You can ask questions about the
information I just presented.